So now that we had a look at the shorthands, let's also dive into something else which is relevant for
positioning, gutters between the rows and columns.
Right now, all the columns rows sit directly next to each other,
there is no space in between
and even if you add a margin, let's say to element three, margin 10 pixels,
even with such a margin, you don't really change anything.
The element now clearly has some distance but if you watch the lines, they still didn't change,
so we just positioned the element different inside of its marked area
and this can lead to the result we want to have but it's not really a clean way, especially since there
is a cleaner way. On the container of the grid,
we can add another property which is grid row or column gap. Grid column
gap allows you to define the gaps between the columns,
so this could be 20 pixels.
If you do that and you reload,
now you see that indeed in the preview, we can see there is a gap.
This still is treated as one line only
which is why the line markers are right in the middle of the gap but we now have an official gutter between
these cells and now we don't have to set a margin on any element to get some distance between the columns
in this case.
Of course, if one element overlaps multiple columns, it's not kind of disturbed by these gaps,
it overlaps the gaps too
which is what you would expect,
I guess. You can of course also set a grid row gap of let's say 10 pixels and now this will introduce some
gaps between the rows unsurprisingly.
And there also is a shorthand, if you want to summarize this, then you can do so, you can add just grid
gap and there, you first specify the row gap of 10 pixels in this case and then the column gap.
So order is important here,
if you now reload, you end up with the same result.
If I change the column gap to 30,
you can see it has an effect,
so this really is working,
this is how you can conveniently add gaps. If you only specify one value here by the way, then this
will be taken for both rows and columns.
So if you want to have the same distance between all elements, then this is the syntax you want to use.